Israel has responded to international
calls to allow more humanitarian Aid
into Gaza the government has now
approved the reopening of the ays
Crossing into Northern Gaza and the
temporary use of ashad port in southern
Israel eight agencies say that supplies
which are getting through at present are
not nearly
enough inside these boxes is medicine
and
supplies much needed Aid at this
Hospital which has become the most
important in Northern
Gaza after alifa Hospital stopped
functioning many patients arrived at
Kamal adwan Hospital which is a small
hospital and we lack medicine and
supplies we called on International
organizations including the World Health
Organization and thank God today we
received some supplies
Aid has been trickling into Gaza however
agencies say it's not enough to meet the
needs of the population pressure has
been growing on Israel to allow more
humanitarian supplies Into The Enclave
which the Israeli government has
approved this decision comes in the wake
of the killing of several Aid workers in
an Israeli strike earlier this week but
safety concerns remain an issue for
ageny still operating in Gaza we don't
have the necessary security guarantees
to work work here the people also need
to be safe so for that for us to really
be able to scale up to avert famine so
that people don't have to die because
they don't have food we need security
guarantees for us as humanitarians but
also for the people we serve in Gaza
famine is edging closer in Northern Gaza
where some 70% of the population is
facing catastrophic hunger according to
the un's world food program
Oxfam says since January Palestinians in
Northern Gaza have eaten an average of
just 245 calories per day that's less
than a can of
beans when we were displaced at the
beginning of the war we used to eat
rotten bread because of the high prices
of food here this is the only place
where I can get food for my children I
have three boys and one girl they need
food where do I get them food I couldn't
afford to buy any food everything is so
expensive and I have no money this Local
Kitchen is our safe place we come here
every
day a problem shared by many gazin six
months into the war and with no end in
sight to their
suffering let's bring in Jonathan Fowler
he's a spokesman for unra that's the
United Nations relief and works Agency
for Palestine refugees he joins me from
Cairo Jonathan more Aid is expected to
come into Gaza now now what difference
does it make for the people on the
ground this remains to be seen I mean we
we were not party to to discussions
about opening the the new Crossing I
should stress we've been advocating for
this since the very beginning of the war
we need more crossings that that's
absolutely essential the current
capacity at um Rafa and at Karam Shalom
is insufficient and in any case the the
number of trucks that have been
permitted to get through at those two
Crossings has been V ly under the number
that's actually required we need to get
500 trucks a day into the Gaza Strip of
food and other kinds of Aid just to meet
the minimum survival requirements of the
population now on average the existing
two Crossings over the the beginning of
this month we've been seeing 169 trucks
a day which is barely better than the
previous month so 169 does not equal 500
we really have to hope that this new
Crossing enables the operation to be
scaled up but we have no idea what's
going to be allowed through or indeed
which agencies are going to be able to
to take um Aid through through this
Crossing and we currently are are not
permitted to take aid at all to the
north of the Gaza Strip your
organization said before that Israel has
been putting obstacles for a to come
into Gaza uh does reopening these routes
mean these obstacles will be
gone um again I mean we we remains to be
seen what what will happen but I mean
the obstacles at the border include
inspections operating hours the these
kind of issues you know items that get
plac on the band list we've not been
able to take in um certain kinds of
medicine your anesthetics insulin pens
for children um medical scissors solar
lamps uh these kind of things um and so
if caros had to be inspected and then
items are removed a place on a band list
that that by definition slows things
down um and then there are also
difficulties of moving around within the
Gaza Strip because the difficulty of
deconfliction um sadly illustrated by by
the death of our friends from World
Central Kitchen um and sadly illustrated
by the death of of huge numbers of our
own staff um in the Gaza Strip so again
you know opening a new Crossing is is
important um but really uh is the
opportunity to scale up the what needs
to be seized is the opportunity to scale
up the operation to an acceptable
level um you mentioned uh the attack on
the aid workers in Gaza how has it
affected the work of Aid organizations
such as yours on the
ground well um obviously I mean world
Central Kitchen and other organizations
have had to make the decision to to Halt
operations and that's meant that people
that they were feeding um will no longer
get fed and the clock is ticking ever
faster to famine for over a million
people um a man-made famine um but in
terms of operations on the ground you
know this tragically is more of the same
we we've been seeing this kind of
pattern um of refusals to to be able to
do missions and notably as I said we we
have been banned uh from from going to
the north um we have faced severe
restrictions on on our ability to
operate within the Gaza Strip denial of
permission to do assessment missions to
even see where people are who what they
might need because you don't just go in
with a truck um of items that don't
necessarily meet the need of the the
people that you're trying to help um so
the operating environment that really
needs to be solved as well Jonathan
Fowler there spokesman for the United
Nations relief and works Agency for
Palestinian ref gz thank
you